--    Download the customer.csvPreview the document file
--    Import the customers file into Workbench.Hint: Right-click on the database name and select table import option from the menu.
--    Write a query to find the number of unique companies in the table.
--    Create a new table for companies and move that data to the new table. Only move the unique companies.
--    Then add a column to your customers table and update the the new column which is called CompanyID.
--    Create a new table for cities and a new table for states and positions.
--    Move that data to the new tables in the same way you did above. Move unique cities and unique states to the two new tables.
--    Delete those columns from this table and add keys to link to the new tables.
--    Create a query that recreates the original data set using joined tables.


create table Position (
positionID int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
Position varchar(255),
primary key (positionID)
);

select * from Position;

select distinct position from Customer
where length(position)>0 and position is not null  order by position;

select count(distinct position) from Customer;

insert into Position (position)
select distinct position from Customer
where length(position)>0 and position is not null  order by position;

select count(*) from Position;

select * from Position;

select * from Customer;

-- blech error
update Customer c set c.Position = (select t.positionID from
Position t where t.position=c.position);

-- don't need this anymore
select c.positionID,c.position,t.positionID,t.position from
Customer c inner join Position t on c.positionID=t.positionID;

-- fix it
ALTER TABLE Customer
MODIFY Position int;

ALTER TABLE Customer
change Position PositionId int not null;

select c.positionID,t.positionID,t.position from
Customer c inner join Position t on c.positionID=t.positionID;

create table CityState (
citystateID int NOT Null auto_increment,
city varchar(255),
state varchar(255),
primary key (citystateID)
);

select distinct city, state
from customer
order by state, city;

insert into CityState (city, state)
select distinct city, state
from Customer
order by state, city;

select * from citystate;

alter table Customer add citystateID int;

select city, state, citystateid from Customer;


update Customer c set c.citystateID = (select t.citystateID from
CityState t where t.city=c.city and t.state=c.state);

select c.citystateid, c.city, c.state, t.citystateid, t.city, t.state
from customer c, citystate t
where c.citystateid = t.citystateID;


 select c.companyID,c.company,t.companyID,t.Company from
Customer c inner join Company t on c.CompanyID=t.CompanyID;

alter table customer drop column city;

alter table customer drop column state;

-- List all the people in the customer's table who's last name is Smith.
select firstname, lastname from Customer
where lastname = 'Smith';

-- List all the customers and their employers and positions that live in Toledo
select c.firstname, c.lastname, t.company, p.position
from customer c, company t, position p
where c.CompanyID=t.companyID and c.positionid=p.positionid;

-- List all the customers and their employers and positions that live in Virginia Beach
select c.firstname, c.lastname, t.company, p.position, s.city
from customer c, company t, position p, citystate s
where c.CompanyID=t.companyID and c.positionid=p.positionid
	and c.citystateID=s.citystateid and s.city='Virginia Beach';

-- Which is the most popular employer in our database? (hint: use select count(*) ....)

select company.company, count(customer.companyid)
from customer inner join company
on customer.companyid = company.companyid
group by company
order by count(customer.CustomerId) DESC;


-- Which is the most populated state in our database?

select citystate.state, count(state)
from customer inner join citystate
on customer.citystateID = citystate.citystateID
-- where citystate.state = 'CA'
group by state
order by count(state) DESC;

-- Change the name of Paula Hill of Anaheim, CA. She just got married to Mr. Smith
-- so she is now Paula Smith.

select firstname, lastname
from customer
where firstname = 'Paula';

update customer
set lastName = 'Smith'
where FirstName='Paula' and LastName='Hill';


-- Vanessa Brown also married Mr. Smith (not the same guy). Update her record as well.

select firstname, lastname
from customer
where firstname = 'Vanessa';

update customer
set lastName = 'Smith'
where FirstName='Vanessa' and LastName='Brown';


-- Now I want to know how many people in the database are named Smith?

select count(*)
from customer
where lastname='Smith';

-- How many people have last names beginning with S?
select count(*)
from customer
where lastname like 'S%';

25


